# IFT2015-Devoir1

[Project Instructions](https://ift2015h21.wordpress.com/2021/02/01/projet-1-planter-un-arbre-dans-lordinateur/#more-136)

## Project Details

This project was mainly built in Java and generates Lindenmayer-systems for
which specifications are detailed in a *.json* file format in the *res*
directory. Two methods have been implemented to create a an L-System
corresponding to a given json file:

- The first method uses an instance of *EPSTurtle* to write a PostScript file
in the *res* directory. The PostScript file associated with this Turtle
instance mainly relies on the commands *moveto* and *lineto* with constantly
changing coordinates describing the L-System this turtle is drawing.
- The second method uses instead an instance of *EPSTurtleOptimized* which
similarly writes a PostScript file in the *res* directory. However, the
PostScript commands mainly used to achieve this differ from the previous
turtle. The commands used are mainly *scale*, *rotate*, and *translate*. The
idea is that each movement or line drawing consists of a unit displacement
while the coordinate system's origin constantly changes in order to align the
movements or drawings according to the sequence to draw.

## Running the application

This application can be run from the command line/terminal using the command:
```
java -jar lindenmayer.jar res/file.json iterations
```
where the first argument *res/file.json* is any *json* file with the necessary
information to construct an L-System in the *res* directory, and the second
argument specifies the number of iterations to take over the specified axiom
in the *json* file which is the starting sequence before beginning to draw the
end result.

Afterwards, if running on a windows machine, one can run the *convertpdf.bat*
batch file which will automatically process through the *res* directory and
convert any *.eps* files generated from the application into its corresponding
pdf file. If then one wishes to remove the excess files generated by the
application, the *clearResults.bat* batch file which will remove all the *.eps*
and *.pdf* files within the *res* directory.

If running on a UNIX machine however, an alternative to the above instructions
is to simply run the ghostscript command to convert a *.eps* file to a *.pdf*:
```
epstopdf res/file.eps > res/file.pdf
```
where *file* denotes the filename of interest.